- [Instructor] Let's now turn our attention
to a kind of test suite that is very often
employed by teams that are practicing
test driven development,
as well as other agile methodology habits.
If you're on a team that practices
test driven development, then chances are high
that this is the kind of team that highly favors
the use of a continuous integration process.
This typically means that there's
a continuous integration server
involved in the automated build and deployment processes.
A single smoke test, or a smoke test suite,
is a good thing to incorporate into the cycle
of your continuous integration server.
This is the kind of test that is run
after every check-in.
There could also be another kind of test
that is run whenever a full deployment
is about to occur.
Let's get started on an example
of a continuous integration test suite
that we might want to make.
So I'm going into my Spring project,
I'm going to drill down in my Source Test Java Tree
and open my com.hanselnpetal root package.
And I'm going to open the Continuous Integration Test Suite,
which should have the familiar run with annotations
and we are supplying a suite runner
to let your unit know we're running a test suite
and we also have to supply a list of suite classes,
which as you notice now is empty.
And I want to open one of the test classes that I've made.
Simply for this test suite.
Let me maximize the Data Store Systems Health Test.
What I have here is a test called dbPrimaryIsOk.
What I'm trying to suggest here is that
you might want to run a check against
database systems or any kind of similar external systems
that your application connects to.
And you may consider that type of test
a good indicator of overall system health.
For this test, I'm simply getting a connection
to our data source.
In asserting that the connection is not null
and that the schema name is what I expect it to be,
which is spring tdd.
So let's minimize this.
Before we do, let's copy this test name.
And now I'm going to switch back to my test suite class
and I want to add my Data Store System Helth Test class
to my list of test suites.
And there's one other class I also want to add.
I'm going to open the Context Management Control
Integration Test.
And I'm going to copy that class name
and then once again, switch back to my
Integration Test Suite.
I'm going to paste the name of this class
into our list.
Now I'm going to put a new line here,
just for readability.
And let me explain why I'm adding
our Control Integration Test.
This could be an example of the kind of feature
in a system that if it were very settled,
because it involves so many different components,
which are also very subtle,
running this test is a good overall indicator
of system health.
So now let's run our test suite.
I'm going to go back to my Package Explorer.
Right click on my Continuous Integration Test Suite class,
run it as a J Unit Test.
I'm going to wait for all of the test classes
in that suite to run.
And then let's see.
We're looking for the green J Unit bar.
And that's what we got.
So let's review what we just accomplished.
I just showed a very simple example
of the kind of test suite you might want
to fold into your continuous integration cycle.
Because this type of test is attached
to a continuous integration cycle,
you want to make sure it's pretty lightweight.
Some teams run a full integration
every 15 minutes, some every hour.
The timing of your continuous integration cycles
will be a good guide for just how much
you want to happen in your smoke test suite.
It really comes down to your team's definition
of what a smoke test is.